Overall, the conditions of the region’s transit infrastructure have largely remained the same from 2019 to 2023. Between 36.0% and 47.9% of the region’s transit support vehicles were in deficient condition from 2019-2023, and 17.5 to 28.6% of the region’s revenue service vehicles have been in deficient condition during the same time frame. Between 2006 and 2023, there were between 6,570 and 36,570 vehicle revenue miles between failures per 100,000 vehicle revenue miles. SEPTA’s current capital program includes vehicle replacements for the oldest Silverliner commuter rail cars, the entire trolley, Market-Frankford Line, and Broad Street Line fleets. Only marginal percentages of the region’s passenger and administrative transit facilities and rail track have been in deficient condition during that period.

These measures cover only a small percent of the more than 6,000 different types of assets that SEPTA maintains. When considering all assets, SEPTA has identified a $5 billion backlog of state-of-good repair needs. SEPTA and NJ Transit’s ability to keep their facilities in states-of-good-repair is especially at risk due to their budget crises. The condition of the region’s transit facilities, vehicles, rail tracks, and other transit assets is critical to service reliability and appealing to potential riders. Worsening conditions can lead to loss of ridership, and decrease the operating budgets of the region’s transit agencies. This in turn limits the ability to improve service.