Four different agencies provide transit service to the region. SEPTA provides bus, trolleybus and light, heavy, and commuter rail service to all five southeastern Pennsylvania counties. Three commuter rail lines terminate outside this service area, one in New Castle County, Delaware and two in Mercer County, New Jersey. The Port Authority Transit Corporation (PATCO) operates a passenger rail line connecting Philadelphia with Camden County. New Jersey Transit (NJ Transit) runs buses throughout the four southern New Jersey counties and into Philadelphia and has one light rail and two commuter rail lines that serve the region. Finally, Pottstown Area Rapid Transit (PART) provides bus service throughout the Borough of Pottstown and into several neighboring municipalities.

The Federal Transit Administration's (FTA's) Transportation Performance Management (TPM) measures gauge transit system conditions with four indicators: (1) the percentage of *revenue* service vehicles that have either met or exceeded their useful life benchmark (ULB) as identified by the transit agency (shown in the first chart); (2) the percentage of *support* vehicles in each asset class that have either met or exceeded their ULB (shown in the second chart); (3) the percentage of facilities in deficient condition (shown in the third chart using the Transit Economic Requirements Model (TERM) scale, which ranges from *1 = poor *condition to 5 = *excellent *condition); and (4) the percentage of rail track mileage with performance restrictions (shown in the fourth chart). 

The fifth chart shows the total vehicle revenue miles between failures per 100,000 vehicle revenue miles, broken down by agency and totaled across all the region’s agencies, which aligns with FTA’s transit safety TPM system reliability metric and target. The NTD [defines](https://www.transit.dot.gov/sites/fta.dot.gov/files/2020-08/SafetyPerformanceTargetFactSheet_20200814.pdf) a major mechanical system failure as “a failure of some mechanical element of the revenue vehicle that prevents the vehicle from completing a scheduled revenue trip or from starting the next scheduled revenue trip because actual movement is limited or because of safety concerns.” Examples of major mechanical failures include breakdowns of brakes, doors, engine cooling systems, steering, axles, and suspension.

2019 was the first year for the initial four-year targets for federally-required Transportation Performance Management (TPM) goals, and is used as the base year for this indicator. Since data is not always available below the agency level, statewide data for New Jersey Transit is shown in charts 1, 2, 4, and 5. The third chart shows only New Jersey Transit facilities in the region, since the NTD has station and maintenance facility data by location. The fifth chart does not show commuter rail, as this information is reported to the Federal Railroad Administration and is not available in the NTD as a result. Dropdowns and radio buttons in these charts enable the presentation of different modes and agencies in all five charts, and charts 1 to 4 can toggle between total deficient and percent deficient out of total available assets.