Every five years, DVRPC performs a regional power use and heat-trapping gases inventory of the Greater Philadelphia region. The inventory looks at the consumption of electricity, natural gas, gasoline, fuel oil, and other fossil fuels, and heat-trapping gases, associated with activities in the residential, commercial, industrial, transportation, and other sectors of the region. The inventory does not include the fossil fuel consumption or heat-trapping gases associated with the production of goods or services imported to the region, other than electricity.

Heat-trapping gases are generally reported in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO<sub>2</sub>e) units. This measure accounts for other gases, such as methane and nitrous oxide, as well as hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons, which are emitted in smaller amounts—but have larger effects on global temperature—than carbon dioxide (CO<sub>2</sub>). For example, one metric ton of nitrous oxide has the same heat-trapping effect as 298 metric tons of CO<sub>2</sub>.

The first chart shows the trends in total CO<sub>2</sub>e and per capita emissions for all years DVRPC has inventoried. The second chart presents this data by emissions source. The ‘Other’ category in Chart 2 includes: Agriculture, Waste Management, Industrial Processes, and Fuel Refining, Transmission, and Distribution, along with the CO<sub>2</sub> sequestration benefits that come from forests and urban trees. The third chart gives context for the major driver of emissions reductions: the region's shifting mix of electricity generation sources, using data from U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The fourth chart displays historic weather trends from the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration with annual data points and a 30-year trendline for: temperature, precipitation, and precipitation from severe storms. The fifth chart shows the trends of heat-trapping gases originating from travel on the region’s portion of the National Highway System (NHS).