Both the New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT) and the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT) track pavement conditions as required by federal regulations for state-maintained and National Highway System (NHS) roadways. NJDOT and PennDOT maintain data on the condition of all federal- and state-owned roadways. 

The Federal Highway Administration’s *Transportation Performance Management (TPM)* Performance Measure 2 (PM2) requires state DOTs and Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPOs) to track pavement conditions based on International Roughness Index (IRI), cracking, faulting, and rutting on all NHS roads. DOTs and MPOs then have to report on performance and set 2- and 4-year expected performance targets. 

IRI is a commonly used metric on its own. It determines pavement roughness conditions based on total inches of surface variation per mile, which gives an indication of overall ride quality. PennDOT and NJDOT both use IRI in their internally developed pavement indexes—*Surface Distress Index (SDI)* in New Jersey and *Overall Pavement Index (OPI)* in Pennsylvania—to determine pavement conditions for all roads. The state DOTs use this information to determine when and what type of pavement preservation or rehabilitation projects to apply. SDI and OPI data are grouped together into a *DOT Pavement Index* category in both charts’ ‘select metric’ dropdown boxes. 

The first chart displays the percentage of pavement in deficient condition for the region and its counties. Explore the data further by specifying a metric and road type in the drop-down menus. The second chart shows each condition rating in total lane miles according to the PM2 metric, and total segment miles according to the IRI and DOT Pavement Index metrics, with options to specify region or subregion and road type (except non-NHS roadways for PM2). County-level statistics for Pennsylvania are only available starting in 2017.

*Segment miles* are used in the IRI and DOT Pavement Index pavement conditions graphs, as both states provide data to calculate this metric. Segment miles measure the roadway length. Length is doubled for divided facilities, which are separated by a median. Unlike *lane miles which* fully account for pavement width, segment miles underrepresent the pavement conditions of wider roads and highways with more lanes. About 4,200 segment miles of road are tracked in Pennsylvania, and about 1,600 miles are tracked in New Jersey. These roads are primarily owned and maintained by each state DOT, though they include some locally maintained roads that are a part of the National Highway System (NHS). The NHS is a federally designated network of roadways important to the nation’s economy, defense, and mobility. Section 1104 of the *Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act* (MAP-21) expanded the NHS by 60,000 miles by including all principal arterials in existence on October 1, 2012. This is the reason for the increase in NHS segment miles in 2013 in the charts below, along with the decrease in non-NHS segment miles. NHS lane mileage is higher in New Jersey from 2020 to 2022 as additional data was collected in the state for TPM purposes. It was lower in 2023, as data was not collected for the New Jersey Turnpike or the Garden State Parkway.