Greater Philadelphia’s gap between male and female labor force participation rates has closed by 5.1% since 2005. As shown in *Labor Force Participation by Sex (Ages 20 to 64)*, the regional male participation rate was 85.0% and the female participation rate was 78.2% in 2023, with a slight 0.3% increase in the gap between 2022 and 2023. The counties closing the gap the most since 2005 are Burlington, Bucks, and Mercer—down 11.9%, 6.4%, and 6.4%, respectively. The counties with the smallest gaps by sex were Burlington (0.9%), Delaware (4.7%), and Philadelphia (5.4%). Chester (10.0%), Camden (7.3%) and Bucks (7.1%) had the highest male to female participation gap.

As shown in *Labor Force Participation by Race (Ages 16 and Older), *the labor force participation rate gap between the region’s white, non-Latinx population, and People of Color (POC) and Latinx has notably decreased between 2006 and 2023. The former dropped from 66.0 to 65.4% participation, while the latter increased from 61.1 to 66.6% participation. Regionally, gaps among all racial and ethnic groupings not only closed over the same time frame, but some POC groups’ labor force participation rates have even started exceeding white ones: As of 2023, Other and Asian non-Latinx residents now have higher labor force participation rates than white ones, at 3.5% and 1.2% higher respectively. Black non-Latinx (1.8%) and Latinx (1.5%) residents have the highest labor force participation rate gap with whites, but this is less than their 2006 gaps.