The federal Clean Water Act was established to restore and maintain the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the nation's waters. Water quality standards have been established by federal and state governments to ensure that waterbodies attain their *designated uses*. Examples of designated uses include aquatic life, recreation, drinking water supply, agricultural water supply, and fish consumption. Different water quality standards apply for each use. For example, the standards for primary contact recreation (for example, swimming) are generally more stringent than for agricultural use. In other cases, a certain pollutant may impact one use, but does not affect others. 

The Clean Water Act mandates monitoring and assessing surface water quality in all states every two years. During this time, government-employed scientists take samples of water at various waterbody sites and test them to determine whether or not that waterbody has attained its designated use(s). The designated use of general aquatic life is the most indicative of overall surface water quality and is the most comprehensively monitored across the region. Therefore, aquatic life is used as the indicator of regional water quality.

Water quality in Pennsylvania is assessed based on stream segments. Attainment, or lack thereof , is determined by analyzing the health of *aquatic macroinvertebrates* (i.e. insect larvae, crayfish, clams, snails, worms) present in the stream. Pennsylvania's Department of Environmental Protection's (PADEP) assessment plan covers the entire state in 10-year increments. Interim evaluations are performed using targeted sampling in each of the state's major subwatersheds every two years. Prior to releasing its 2014 report, PADEP adopted more stringent biological assessment protocols. As a result, a number of previously attaining streams were downgraded, and this is reflected in the significant drop from the 2014 report onward. New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) assigns attainment status to entire subwatersheds (land area) associated with a particular reach of stream. This determination is also based on in-stream sampling of macroinvertebrates. 

Since the two states do not report water quality data using the same criteria (stream miles in Pennsylvania versus acres of subwatershed in New Jersey), the percentage of non-attaining water(s) in each state is taken according to its preferred unit, and then the two percentages are averaged together to obtain a regional value.

The first chart shows the percent of water bodies in attainment for each state, as well as the overall regional percentage. The second chart shows the number of attaining and non-attaining acres of subwatersheds, as well as subwatershed acres with insufficient data, in New Jersey. The final chart shows the number of attaining, non-attaining, and unassessed stream miles in Pennsylvania.