Since 2006, higher income households have seen their incomes grow, while lower income households have experienced a decline in total income. Although the gap between households of color and white, non-Latinx households is significant, it has narrowed. During this same period, income inequality narrowed between males and females, but a gap persists. All income figures presented here have been adjusted to account for inflation.

The region’s lowest income (first-quintile) households' earned $20,532 on average in 2006, which decreased by 8.6% to $18,764 in 2023. Meanwhile, the highest income (fifth-quintile) average income went from $275,354 a year in 2006 to $307,382 a year in 2023, a gain of roughly 11.6% or $32,000—about 1.5 times more than the average first-quintile household made in 2006 or 2023. In this same period, the average second-quintile household had a very small 1.2% decrease in average income, while the third and fourth quintiles gained 1.7% and 4.2% respectively. The households comprising each quintile are not static, and may move up or down within these different income quintiles over time. 

The gap in median income between the region's households with people of color (POC), and white, non-Latinx persons declined by 9.9% from 2000 ($40,261) to 2023 ($36,273). POC households’ median household income is still only about 65% of white households’, though with considerable variance between different racial groups. Asian households’ median household income ranged from almost $12,000 under to about $9,000 over white households’ during the 23-year period. Black households’ median income decreased by about $3,100 over the last 23 years, and has been roughly half of the median income for white households throughout this period. Latinx households’ median income grew from 2000 ($56,617) to 2023 ($63,490). Their percentage gap decreased from 44.5% less median income than white households’ in 2000 to 39.0% lower in 2023.

The gap in median earnings between male and female residents of the region declined from $23,274 in 2000 to $14,368 in 2023—a 38.3% drop. Still, female median earnings were 24.3% less than males in 2023. Male earnings have generally been on a downward trend since their peak in this dataset in 2005. They rose slightly in the latter half of the 2010s coming out of the Great Recession. However, the most recent years have seen male earnings fall again, dropping back to 2010 levels in 2023. Female earnings similarly saw a similar general decline until a low in 2013. By 2017, female median earnings surpassed the prior 2006 high, and have generally continued to rise from there.