DVRPC has tracked regional land use changes and the preservation of land for decades. Since 1990, DVRPC has produced digital land use files every five years using Computer Assisted Mapping and Geographic Information Systems software. Methods and technology were updated for the 2000 inventory and subsequent releases. Although reasonable comparisons can be drawn between DVRPC's land use files produced in 2000 or later, users should be cautious when comparing these later files to earlier land use data, particularly within specific developed land use categories and/or specific municipalities due to changes in methodology over time—particularly the move to orthorectified digital aerial photographs. Starting in 2015, the land use inventory added 42 more land use subcategories, including a new local road category. Prior to the 2015 enhanced land use inventory, local roads were simply assigned to the land use category of the adjoining roadside parcel up to the centerline of the road. From 2015 onwards, the entire surface area of local roads have been categorized as ‘Transportation’, regardless of the land use category of the adjoining parcel. This is why Transportation land in the region jumped considerably in 2015. 

Chart 1 shows how many acres have been developed at the regional and subregional levels since 1970, as well as how many acres of land have been used for agricultural purposes. Chart 2 shows how regional and subregional land use types have changed since 1970.

DVRPC also maintains an inventory of protected public and private open space in the region. The inventory tracks all publicly owned open space, and preserved farmland and nonprofit-protected open space (both of which are typically still owned by private landowners). States, counties, municipalities, and nonprofits (such as land trusts and conservancies) may purchase a parcel of land outright for preservation or purchase the development rights to the parcel. Outright purchase of land (“fee-simple” purchase of a parcel) can be accomplished by both public and private entities, but is much more common among public entities. Purchase of development rights is common for farmland, enabling the farmer landowner to continue working on the land. Funding sources for land conservation vary, but public entities typically use tax funds, while nonprofits may use a combination of public and private sources. Tax deductions also provide incentives to private landowners when donating land or easements to land trusts and conservancies.

Updates to the protected open space inventory follow the four-year Long-Range Plan cycle. Data is available for 2004, 2007, 2011, 2016, and 2020. As with land use data, calculation methods and the accuracy of protected open space data have changed and improved over time.

Chart 3 shows acreage permanently protected from future development, including publicly-owned open space and privately-owned protected open space (including both preserved farmland and land eased or owned by private, nonprofit land conservation organizations) at the regional and subregional levels. Chart 4 shows protected open space by type (federal-, state-, county- or municipally-owned; preserved farmland; or land eased and owned by nonprofit organizations) by a selected regional or subregional geography.